Update OpenAI GPT model card (#37255)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/openai-gpt.md

<img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
</div>

# OpenAI GPT
## Overview

[GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer)](https://cdn.openai.com/research-covers/language-unsupervised/language_understanding_paper.pdf) focuses on effectively learning text representations and transferring them to tasks. This model trains the Transformer decoder to predict the next word, and then fine-tuned on labeled data.

GPT can generate high-quality text, making it well-suited for a variety of natural language understanding tasks such as textual entailment, question answering, semantic similarity, and document classification.

You can find all the original GPT checkpoints under the [OpenAI community](https://huggingface.co/openai-community/openai-gpt) organization.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the GPT models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply GPT to different language tasks.

The example below demonstrates how to generate text with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.

## Usage tips

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

You can use this model with the `pipeline` API :

```python

> from transformers import pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import torch
from transformers import pipeline
```

> generator = pipeline("text-generation", model="openai-gpt")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generator = pipeline(task="text-generation", model="openai-community/gpt", torch_dtype=torch.float16, device=0)
```

output = generator("The future of AI is", max_length=50, do_sample=True)
print(output[0]["generated_text"])
```

</hfoption> <hfoption id="AutoModel">

You can also load the model using `AutoModelForCausalLM` :
```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("openai-gpt")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("openai-community/gpt")
```

> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("openai-gpt")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("openai-community/openai-gpt", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
```

inputs = tokenizer("The future of AI is", return_tensors="pt")
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_length=50)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

> <hfoption id="transformers-cli">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</hfoption>
<hfoption id="transformers-cli">
```

```bash

> echo -e "The future of AI is" | transformers-cli run --task text-generation --model openai-gpt --device 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
echo -e "The future of AI is" | transformers-cli run --task text-generation --model openai-community/openai-gpt --device 0
```

```
</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

## Notes

> - This model was trained using a causal language modeling (CLM) objective.
> - It uses byte-level BPE tokenization.
> - Right-side padding is recommended due to absolute position embeddings.
> - Best suited for text generation and zero-shot transfer learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inputs should be padded on the right because GPT uses absolute position embeddings.
```

## Overview

> The OpenAI GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) model was originally proposed in the paper "Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-Training" by Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan, Tim Salimans, and Ilya Sutskever. GPT is a causal (unidirectional) transformer pre-trained on a large corpus, utilizing the Toronto Book Corpus, and fine-tuned for a variety of NLP tasks.

Reviewer: The badges should go above `# OpenAI GPT` and be aligned to the right:

```md
<div style="float: right;">
   badges
</div>

Author: done

> The OpenAI GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) model was originally proposed in the paper "Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-Training" by Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan, Tim Salimans, and Ilya Sutskever. GPT is a causal (unidirectional) transformer pre-trained on a large corpus, utilizing the Toronto Book Corpus, and fine-tuned for a variety of NLP tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer)](https://cdn.openai.com/research-covers/language-unsupervised/language_understanding_paper.pdf) focuses on effectively learning text representations and transferring them to tasks. This model trains the Transformer decoder to predict the next word, and then fine-tuned on labeled data.
```

> The core innovation of GPT lies in its ability to generate high-quality text, making it well-suited for a variety of natural language understanding tasks such as textual entailment, question answering, semantic similarity, and document classification. The model is based on a transformer architecture and trained using the language modeling objective, followed by task-specific fine-tuning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GPT can generate high-quality text, making it well-suited for a variety of natural language understanding tasks such as textual entailment, question answering, semantic similarity, and document classification.
```

> In comparison to previous discriminative models, GPT achieves significant gains by utilizing a generative pretraining approach on a large, diverse corpus of unlabeled text, followed by fine-tuning for specific tasks. It achieves state-of-the-art results in a variety of benchmarks.

Reviewer: We can remove this paragraph

Author: done

> Key Improvements and Features:
> Scalability: The model can scale efficiently with larger training datasets, improving performance on a wide range of NLP tasks.
> 
> Generative Pre-training: GPT leverages unsupervised pretraining on large text corpora, making it task-agnostic and highly adaptable.
> 
> Fine-Tuning Flexibility: After pretraining, GPT can be fine-tuned for specific tasks with minimal changes to the model architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Official checkpoints can be found on the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://huggingface.co/models).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the original GPT checkpoints under the [OpenAI community](https://huggingface.co/openai-community/openai-gpt) organization.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the GPT models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply GPT to different language tasks.

The example below demonstrates how to generate text with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.
```

> ## Usage tips

Reviewer: We can remove everything else after this as its out-of-scope and a bit overwhelming. Take a look at the [Llama](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/model_doc/llama) doc for how this section should be formatted.

It should basically look like the example below. Include code snippets for using GPT with `Pipeline`, `AutoModel` and from the command line. Then add a `## Notes` section after it.

```md
<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">
...
...
...
</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

## Notes
```

Author: done
